README.md, before:

# ToptalCalculator

ToptalCalculator is an advanced calculator built in Python by [José Tomás Tocino](https://josetomatocino.com) 
for the Toptal Technical Screening process. It's able to process arithmetic expressions
and linear equations.

## Capabilities

As previously stated, this calculator can process arithmetic expressions and
solve linear equations, so long as they're properly formatted. In particular:

* The calculator can solve **linear equations** with a single variable.
* The calculator can do calculations in both **infix and postfix (RPN) notation**.
* The calculator supports **parentheses** in infix notation.
* The calculator supports **addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, logarithms (log and ln), trigonometric
  functions (sin, cos, tan, ctan)**.
* The calculator works with the known constants of **Archimedes’ constant** (Pi) and **Euler’s number** (e).

## Implementation

The calculator is implemented in Python 3.8 with no external dependencies or libraries. The core resides in the `calculator` package. It contains an `evaluator` module with an
`evaluate` function, which receives a string with the expression or equation and
does all the processing.

In particular, the steps involved in the evaluation process are the following:

* First, the `parser` module is used to tokenize the input. Available tokens appear in the `tokens` module.
* Then, if the input is not in Reverse Polish Notation (postfix), the token list is converted to postfix notation.
* Finally, the evaluator detects whether the input represents a simple expression or an equation. The list of tokens in postfix notation is
properly parsed and evaluated, and the result is returned. If there's an error, a `RuntimeError` exception is raised.

The calculator should have a language parser.
Do not use any library that can accomplish any of the listed requirements.
The calculator should handle all error cases properly (by carefully indicating the errors to the user).
Write tests.

### Frontend and server

Optionally, **ToptalCalculator** offers a web-based user interface built with Flask in the back-end, and Vue.js + Bulma in the front-end.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine. First, make sure you have
Python3 properly installing by running:

```
python3 --version
```

Then, create a new virtual environment:

```
python3 -mvenv env
```

Activate the environment and install the requirements

```
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Make sure the code is working properly by **running the tests**, using:

```
python -m unittests
```

It should report something like:

```
.....................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 37 tests in 0.004s

OK
```

### Running the web user interface

Running the web user interface is really simple. Just run

```
python server/server.py
```

And then navigate to http://127.0.0.1:5000/ to check the user interface.

## Authors

* **José Tomás Tocino** - [Personal website](https://josetomastocino.com)

## License

This project is licensed under the Unlicense, meaning it's free and released into the public domain - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Thanks to Toptal for giving me this opportunity to show my skills!

Commit message:

Add screen capture to README

README.md, after:

# ToptalCalculator

ToptalCalculator is an advanced calculator built in Python by [José Tomás Tocino](https://josetomatocino.com)
for the Toptal Technical Screening process. It's able to process both **arithmetic expressions**
and **linear equations**, and has a simple companion **web interface** built with Flask to try the project.

![Capture](assets/capture.png)

## Capabilities

As previously stated, this calculator can process arithmetic expressions and solve linear equations, so long as they're
properly formatted. In particular:

* The calculator can solve **linear equations** with a single variable.
* The calculator can do calculations in both **infix and postfix (RPN) notation**.
* The calculator supports **parentheses** in infix notation.
* The calculator supports **addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, logarithms (log and ln), trigonometric
  functions (sin, cos, tan, ctan)**.
* The calculator works with the known constants of **Archimedes’ constant** (Pi) and **Euler’s number** (e).

## Implementation

The calculator is implemented in Python 3.8 with no external dependencies or libraries. The core resides in the `calculator` package. It contains an `evaluator` module with an
`evaluate` function, which receives a string with the expression or equation and
does all the processing.

In particular, the steps involved in the evaluation process are the following:

* First, the `parser` module is used to tokenize the input. Available tokens appear in the `tokens` module.
* Then, if the input is not in Reverse Polish Notation (postfix), the token list is converted to postfix notation.
* Finally, the evaluator detects whether the input represents a simple expression or an equation. The list of tokens in postfix notation is
properly parsed and evaluated, and the result is returned. If there's an error, a `RuntimeError` exception is raised.

The calculator should have a language parser.
Do not use any library that can accomplish any of the listed requirements.
The calculator should handle all error cases properly (by carefully indicating the errors to the user).
Write tests.

### Frontend and server

Optionally, **ToptalCalculator** offers a web-based user interface built with Flask in the back-end, and Vue.js + Bulma in the front-end.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine. First, make sure you have
Python3 properly installing by running:

```
python3 --version
```

Then, make sure you have pip and pipenv installed:

```
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pipenv wheel
```

Install the dependencies:

```
pipenv install
```

Make sure the code is working properly by **running the tests**, using:

```
pipenv run pytest
```

It should report something like:

```
.....................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 37 tests in 0.004s

OK
```

### Running the web user interface

Running the web user interface is really simple. Just run

```
python server/server.py
```

And then navigate to http://127.0.0.1:5000/ to check the user interface.

## Authors

* **José Tomás Tocino** - [Personal website](https://josetomastocino.com)

## License

This project is licensed under the Unlicense, meaning it's free and released into the public domain - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Thanks to Toptal for giving me this opportunity to show my skills!
